Good morning, dear colleagues.
My name is Natalie Red.
I am the Vice President
of the Moscow School of
Business.
Today we are working on
the topic of HR management.
In this topic, we will look at
two main blocks.
This is the development of
the HR strategy and corporate
culture of the company.
Let us go with you to our first
slide.
Thus, the construction of the personnel
management system includes the
diagnosis of the personnel management
system existing in the company.
It is clear that a company that exists
for more than one year, has already been
building some type of personnel
management system, which has been established
for a certain time.
First, we will go through the basic
methods of diagnosis of the
personnel management system.
We will develop programs on the
main areas of activity within the strategy.
We will form a staff service and
design the main documents that are
part of the management of personnel.
Why do we do this with you?
What do we have as a result?
Let us move to the next slide.
The expected result.
We have a clear, comprehensible,
all-accepted strategy of human resources
management, a system of human resources
management that reflects all
the features of the company, that
is, our history, our market with
you, our corporate culture.
The HR management service is also
one of the tools for implementing
the strategy.
Working, active service is also
one of the results of our
course with you.
So what is included in the stages
of HR service?
As I said, we start with a diagnosis
of the current situation in the
company.
We see what is, what has happened,
what we will have to operate
to build our strategies
with you.
The second.
Based on what is, we draw a point,
and where we want to be with you.
The objectives and objectives
of the HR management strategy.
We define the objectives of the unit
based on the company's strategy.
The next stage.
We see what internal, human
resources we need to move from
the point A, where we are today,
to the point B, where we want
to be with you.
The next stage.
We recruit staff in the
structure, the functional
model that we have drawn
with you.
We develop regulations, documents
and are briefly written, in
fact one of the most difficult
stages, adapting the new division
of the company's existing
system.
The diagnostic areas.
What we look at, determining what
strategy of personnel development,
work with personnel we and
you choose.
Let's start with the markets.
A company that works in the field
of production, in industry, it
is oriented to a more conservative
strategy, more oriented to
social programs in the
work with personnel.
If we take a company working
in the IT market, there we have a
more dynamic environment, a more
dynamic labour market, a more dynamic
environment, and therefore
more in our HR strategy
will be provided with personnel
development programs,
team education.
The motivation system will most
likely be tied to the results.
The market we are in is also
closely linked to the labour
market.
How competitive is the labor
market in our region, in our
industry.
If the industry as a whole declined,
as it was, let's say, a few years
ago in agriculture, in the
textile industry, the labour
market was uncompetitive.
There could not be considerable
resources for hiring.
And separately, it was possible
not to allocate this block in the
HR strategy, because the employees
were in line, and there was no
special need to form the
employer's brand in the labour market,
and to do the rest of the quite
expensive and resources
and money things.
If we talk about the same IT company'
s labour market, which I mentioned
before, where the labour
market from the very beginning
of the industry was
quite competitive, then there
is a fairly serious system
of hiring personnel.
This is also the work with universities to
engage young professionals in
the formation of an external personnel reserve.
It is clear that all this will require
a separate time, individual money
and individual specialists for
this work.
Furthermore, what else we look at,
determining where we are to sail in the framework
of human resources management, what
structure we should build and what
to pay attention to.
Number of employees, number
of employees.
I think it's no secret that the
strategy of working with personnel
in a company with tens of
thousands of people and
several dozen employees will
be fundamentally different.
The smaller the company, the more
we can afford individual
work with employees,
some psychological
accompaniment.
The larger the company, the more
we work with the system, not
with each individual.
That is, we build the system as a
whole at once, and the larger the
company, the more we will have
to formalize our internal standards,
our internal procedures,
our internal system.
About such an important component
as organizational culture, and
how we will build a HR strategy
with you accordingly,
we will talk more in
detail in the second part.
It is also very important to know
what stage of development your company
is at the moment.
Everyone knows that the company goes through
certain stages in its development.
First, when the company is small,
everyone gathered and knew each
other, working on arrangements
without any formalized
rules, procedures of politicians.
Once the company begins to
grow, the next stage of mechanization
appears.
We are starting to formalize our policies
and procedures.
We are beginning to fix our arrangements
in paper form.
We get different levels of that
staff that is in our internal
staff service.
Let us see how our staff
service develops depending on
the stage of the company's development.
At the first stage of the process, we
either have no staff manager at all
in the company, or he is alone,
he is called a reader, a gender,
a node and a greek.
That is, one person and selects, and performs
the functions of a psychologist, and
engages in training staff, and all
the things that are needed at the moment
for the company.
At the mechanization stage,
we begin to build the staff
service on a functional type.
That is, the direction of training is separate,
the selection and adaptation of personnel
are separate.
In a separate block, we are starting
to get out of the production work.
Depending on what strategy
we choose for our company.
The next stage is internal
entrepreneurship, when we move
from the functional type to project
management and other tools
for results management
within the company.
We have a comprehensive strategy
for human resources management,
corporate ideologies are developed,
and more affiliated tools
are attracted.
By the way, at the same stage, the
HR management service usually
moves to the project management
method.
A separate topic of HR and top manager and relationships.
First of all, I want to draw the attention
of managers who are only planning
to take the service, take their
company such a beast as a
HR manager.
What do you want to draw your attention to?
If you think that with the arrival of
a single specialist the situation
in the company will change immediately,
the rules of the game will change,
it was bad, everything will be good,
then, unfortunately, without a system
of regular management, without high-
level specialists in all positions
within the company, one person can
not build a competent personnel
management strategy.
The rules of the game are formalized,
which are determined only
by the first persons
of the company.
And once you have taken a specialist
to yourself, once you have a person
responsible for working with
personnel, he has certain
roles in the company.
What do you want to pay attention to?
In small companies, when a
person comes to a newly
created position, makes a staff
service structure, makes a HR management
strategy under himself, there
is a tendency to slide
into a dangerous role.
The dangerous roles include
the priest, the one who hears
everyone, accepts everyone and
forgives sins.
Maita is a native, a lawyer before
the administration, who walks and is
engaged in protecting employees on
the occasion and without a reason before
the administration.
And the reverse role is the policeman,
the one who monitors and walks,
embodies the entire power of administration
in his person.
While the main roles, key roles of
the company's HR should be the HR
strategist, one who determines where
we go depending on the company's
strategy, the HR technician, that is,
a specialist who knows perfectly
the technologies of human resources
management, the HR consultant, that
is, ready and able to advise people
on certain issues of human resources
management, well and the human
resources innovator, that
is, a person who knows the
main new technologies of human
resources management existing
on the market, and who can apply
them in practice.
Why is more and more attention
being paid to the management
of personnel in companies?
It is no secret that the main objective
of the company's strategy and purpose
in the market has been to increase
the value of the company.
This is often due to the IPO, with
accountability to shareholders.
Thus, the tasks of managing personnel
significantly affect the value
indicators of the company.
I would like to bring the results of
the study conducted by companies
Ecopsia and Rosexpert, the image
of the company as an employer.
Here are 10 main non-financial
indicators that affect the
value of a company.
I think those companies that have
already faced due diligence preparation,
the main of these indicators
are familiar.
First, the implementation of the
corporate strategy.
How do you monitor and monitor the implementation
of the corporate strategy?
They look not at the assurance
of the management, not the statement
of the company's talk managers
that the corporate strategy is and it
is being implemented, but look
at how much the corporate strategy is
formalized, how familiar it is
with the staff.
Until, say, a company that evaluates
a company for its value
will necessarily go through the
middle-low executives
and ask about what is your
company's strategy in the
market, if you know it, where
it is located, if you can
get acquainted with
it, and so on.
Second, trust in key executives
is tested on two main
parameters.
First, the powers of key executives.
If you have a commercial director
can sign payments for a amount
of no more than 20 thousand rubles,
this indicates that there is no trust
in him, larger payments are all
in the competence of the
general director.
In addition, trust in key executives
is checked by contracts
with top managers.
That is, it looks how key
managers, at the level of
Deputy CEOs, are tied
by their motivation system
to the performance of the
company as a whole.
Are they only on salaries or
they participate, tied to their
pocket, in the financial
results of the company as a
whole.
The next opportunity for
professional growth and training.
It looks at whether there is a training
program in the company, how much it is
performed, what dynamics on the
learning processes in the company
is observed in recent times.
For the last three to four years, sometimes
asking for learning data for the last
five years and looking at whether there
is a dynamic in the number of
students, whether there is a dynamic
in the number of hours of general study,
whether there is a dynamic in the
budgets for training, checked how
much the company provides opportunities
for its employees for
professional growth.
The fourth point is innovation and
the sixth point is not directly
within our fellow competence,
but the fifth point is the
ability to attract and retain
talent is entirely our task
with you.
What is the indicator that we have
attracted and retained talent?
Again two factors.
The first factor.
To this point, the appendices are
summary of senior and middle-level
managers.
Those who rate us look at
how much those we attracted
to the company are really stars.
They look at education, look at
previous level of work and level
of responsibility.
The second point, which is addressed
here by the MZ, is the
information requested.
Have you been fired from the company
in the last four years?
If so, there is complete statistics.
If the dismissals occurred,
unfortunately, it will
be concluded that we
attract stars, but we can'
t hold them.
The competence of managers
is also assessed by the level of delegation.
What questions can we delegate to the
manager and what questions the
company delegated to the manager.
The next.
Adjustment of corporate payment system
with the interests of shareholders.
This is a very important point for
those who intend to be allowed to buy
a company or take it to an IPO.
Shareholders want to be sure that with
the change of owner the top manager
and middle management will not leave the company.
Therefore, they would like to know
that the motivation system, first
of all, is long-term, tied to
long-term indicators.
Secondly, the system that we have
is motivation and incentives
of staff, it provides for
the interest of all people
in the company in making the
company's value grow.
A separate point is the development
of leadership.
As far as training is only about
professional skills or the company
also invests in the development
of personal qualities of its
employees, this is where
this attention is paid.
The quality of the main business
processes is often beyond
the framework of the management
system of the company
as a whole.
So this point is brief.
Business processes should be
clear, understandable and, again,
accessible to all levels of
staff in the company.
In addition, the signs of the low
cost of the company's human
resources, according to the study
conducted by the reputable company
Profi, are as follows.
The flow of personnel, the instability
of the company, the inability to retain
it, to attract staff, is an indicator
of the very low cost of the company's
staff.
The dismissal of the company's top
managers for the last year, which we have already
talked about earlier.
The constant resolution of conflicts
among staff at various levels by
senior management, the fact that the
system is not well-established, the
fact that the company's manager is
forced to spend his resources on drying
and crushing conflicts between people,
is a very bright indicator that the
system of human resources management,
first, is not de-built,
and secondly, that this staff
is quite cheap.
In addition, I draw your attention,
if there were any conflicts between
the administration and the personnel,
if theft, theft and
other forms of personnel violations
were recorded and documented,
this will also indicate that
the cost of the personnel
in the company is
quite low.
To move to the next slide, we need
to distribute how the development
of the personnel management service
in the company is built.
What we have already united depending
on the stage of the company's development
in the market, we would like
to consider now in more detail and
more in detail with the
link to the number of staff in
our company.
So, if the number of staff is in the area
of ten people or several dozen,
then, as a rule, the function
of personnel management is peacefully
performed by the head of the
organization itself.
That is, the main function that goes
at this time is only the selection
of hiring and sometimes the personnel
business of production.
At the next stage, once we have a
population of more than a hundred
people, there is a selection of hiring,
production business, sometimes
training begins, and in those
companies that are focused on long-
term cooperation with the market,
there is a team of education
and more developed management
functions.
After six hundred people, we are already
talking about the staff department or
the HR department, as you can see, with
the following functions.
The selection of rent, social package
we have appears here, and more developed
production business.
We are already beginning to pay
attention to the administrative and
state services that are responsible
for controlling the workforce of production.
And we have to build
a system of work with
personnel.
Nearly 1,000 people have a wider function.
We are developing staff training.
That is, we can already develop our
staff, train, build a system of
work with the personnel
reserve, both with internal and
external.
Well, more than two thousand people
have a full block, the entire line
of our personnel management functions.
From hiring adaptation
to social programs,
corporate events.
And everything is built not on
an amateur level, but more than systematically.
In the next slide we see the options
for implementing HR functions in the company.
That is, the company with its growth,
with the expansion
of its relations with the staff,
can move in three main ways.
And here they are depicted in sufficient detail.
First, we can go the
standard way, complete,
develop our own staff service.
It has such a way separately and as
its pros, that is, we always have specialists
at hand, as well as its disadvantages.
This is usually a large
amount of funding.
That, if we want to attract
professionals to our industries,
then their cost is quite high.
With the cost of the management system
we constantly decline the quality of
the management system.
The second option, more
common in the market now, is the
use of internal services by personnel,
freezing them on one level, and
with some extension of functions,
adding tasks, if necessary,
implementing this service
additional projects,
we actively engage
external providers.
There are also certain difficulties.
We, as we do not get rid of the disadvantages
of our own staff service, we are
supplemented by the huge disadvantages
of external providers, the
need to coordinate work
with them separately and increase
financial costs.
The third way that is now
considered the most optimal
for today is outsourcing, where
we give all of the HR functions
to internal suppliers, leaving
within the company only those
functions that we need
to support, coordinate
and control our external
service providers.
The disadvantages, of course,
are certain, especially if the
company is located in the region where
the external human resources management
market is not developed, where
there is insufficient number of recruitment
agencies, training centers,
consulting companies that can
lead high-level and high-quality
human resources management projects.
In other words, the system
seems to be the most optimal
for companies that have started to
expand the system of human resources management.
The most interesting thing is that we
are attracting professionals.
A company, say, which is engaged
in recruiting staff, it is engaged in
this constantly and in the entire
market.
It has more detailed information
about the labor market, it has
information from your competitors
about their salary level, their
level of managers, something
that will never be with an
internal staff specialist.
No matter what option of development
of the staff you choose, which structure
is more convenient for you to manage,
sooner or later the question arises,
how to assess the effectiveness of
the staff management service,
how to assess the efficiency or
inefficiency of your management
of the human resources.
Recently, the topic has become very
relevant, because if we can assess
the activity of the sales department
by some economic factors,
then, as regards the activity
of the personnel service,
such an assessment is very difficult.
As a rule, the main factor
by which we assess the effectiveness
of human resources management
is, as you can see, in the
area of the company's staff satisfaction
with certain activities of
the staff service.
How comfortable is the staff, what conditions
of work they have, how satisfied
the staff is with the motivation
system, the training system, the
promotion system within the company.
It is by these indicators that the
activities of the staff service are assessed,
whether they are effective or ineffective.
As a rule, a survey is conducted
among employees of the company with
a fairly typical set of questions
on each block of factors that
are important for employees
when they work in the company.
With this survey, it is clear
how comfortable, comfortable,
interesting people are to work,
how much they see prospects for
themselves within the company,
how much they understand and are
interested in the existing system
of pay and premium within the company.
In addition, often the staff
services are linked to efficiency
to the company's savings.
It is believed that the rating
is quite vicious, because
it forces the HR service to work
inefficiently, but economically,
in principle, if not badly,
but cheaply.
If we move to the new, latest trends
in the labour markets for the evaluation
of personnel services, we see that
among the current trends there
is already an opinion that personnel
costs are not costs, it is
an investment in the future.
However, the question of evaluating
these investments remains quite difficult
and there are many copies broken
about how we evaluate the effectiveness
of investment in personnel,
especially the effectiveness of
investment in staff training.
It is very difficult to formalize
the effectiveness of education economically.
However, recently we see that the attitude
to HR is changing, shareholders
are interested in them, HR performance
indicators are taken into
account when estimating the cost of
companies, the HR system is
already becoming not only a center
of costs, but also a center
of profit.
It can be said that the trends of modern
HR practices are consistent with the
general trends in the market.
Attention is not paid to costs, but
to investments, attention is paid to the
company's value and attention is paid
not only to economic factors, financial
factors of the company's value, but also
to the qualitative indicators of this value.
The subject is complex, little formalized
and sufficiently, say, abstractly
understood to date.
What is in this block of work?
It includes a large division of
the diagnosis of corporate culture,
the definition and development of basic
principles, values, norms and rules
of our company and the diagnosis
of the internal communication
system in the company.
What do we have as a result?
In the following slide
we have listed that as a result
of all our actions, our entire
work block on corporate culture
we have formed and mainly divided
by personnel corporate
norms, rules and values.
We see strengthening staff
loyalty through feedback
and we have an effective
toolkit to work with corporate
culture.
What is the corporate culture
in the company and why should
it be done?
Recently, the corporate culture
has been paid attention
not only to personnel
management professionals,
but also to the CEOs
and managers of
the company.
Here I can refer to the study
of the Association of Managers of Russia,
which conducted a survey among the
first persons of the company on the topic
of what influences corporate culture.
You see that from the point
of view of managers and owners,
corporate culture is needed
precisely because, first, it
provides a positive image of the
company among the staff, and
the labour market, and among
shareholders, contributes
to higher performance, that is,
affects economic performance,
on the economic results
of the company.
Corporate culture promotes
better motivation of staff
and generally has a huge
impact on intangible
motivation.
It is one of the key factors of the
company's development strategy
and allows to improve the efficiency
of business processes.
That is, as can be seen in this slide,
most of the respondents note that corporate
culture is needed, but it has not
gone without the backward, who believe
that the formation of corporate
culture is absolutely not necessary
and is absolutely luxurious.
If we move further, we can look
more closely at how culture
affects the performance
of tasks.
If people are intimidated,
they start thinking only
of today, and if they think of tomorrow,
they start thinking only of
where to find a new job.
If employees through a clever system
of fines, contracts, to take
out the earnings and try to catch
it at every corner, then, as a
rule, employees calmly start to
compensate for these problems
with theft.
If we start paying the
prizes on some dates, not for
achievements, not for development,
not for professionalism, employees
have absolutely no motivation
to grow, develop
or any result.
If our internal morality in the
team is absolutely absent, whether
we want it or not, it will be
transferred to interaction
with customers and partners,
which we now see in
a number of retail companies.
If we train employees, but the
direct managers of employees
demonstrate the exact
opposite behavior, then
there will be no results, neither
economic nor qualitative,
from training.
If we sent a sales employee to
a training in negotiation skills,
where for 2-3 days the coach tells
him that the customer is our
all, everything for the sake of
the customer, we love the customers,
and then, coming to the company,
the employee sees that his direct
manager, the head of the sales
department in close communication,
the employee has no motivation
or internal interest in
demonstrating other behavior.
Well, if we promote not for
training, not for advancement,
but for family ties, for some
political hiccups within
the company, employees
will have no motivation
to study.
What measures can we apply and
use when we need to maintain
or change the corporate
culture in our company, which
is what we pay attention to in
the first place, which is the
key points of application
of our efforts if we want
to change the existing corporate
culture.
The most important thing, number one, is
what the managers and managers of the
company pay attention to.
If you have managers and executives
in your company who love
to play sports, then, of
course, most middle managers and
ordinary employees will be enthusiastic
about playing football on Wednesday,
because there they can see
the president, first,
second, the president encourages
it.
The second is that it affects
the corporate culture, the response
of management to critical
situations, to any organizational
crises.
It is known that in the
turbulent 90s, when the
tax services were checked, a
very sad sight or some conflict
with competitors came,
companies in which managers
did not escape, did not
hide, then showed, as a rule,
higher results and survived
safely to our days.
Another parameter that
helps us change a culture
or maintain one that interests
us is appropriate role
modeling training.
If we want a corporate
culture, result-oriented, then
other ways than teaching people
to work for the result, to
teach teamwork for the result,
to teach a new system of motivation,
other ways that allow so fast
and qualitatively to introduce
people into a new situation,
they do not exist.
The indicator, which I will mention here,
is the fourth in order, but I would
say that it is one of the first in
importance, the criterion for
determining remuneration and status.
What we reward, what we
encourage, what our employees
will do.
If we say that we encourage
and reward for the results,
but in fact only encourage
and reward those who
are cousins of the
CEO, then it is unlikely
that we will be
doing good.
The next point, quite important,
which is an indicator of
what our corporate culture
is, are the criteria for hiring.
Who do we take and how do we take?
We take by acquaintance or we
choose the most competitive employees
in the labour market so that
they give us the most
competitive results.
This is an indicator of what
corporate culture we have.
Well, a very important factor
are organizational symbols and rituals.
What about organizational symbols
and rituals?
Types of rites that exist in a
company depending on what
we are encouraging.
In general, the ceremony is designed to emphasize
the importance for the company of one
or another event in the life of the
company and the employee.
There are promotional rites.
The promotion rites include any
action by the company that
accompanies the promotion of an
employee within the company,
a change in his status, a change
in his position, a change in his
division, his place in the company.
All of this is a promotion rite.
Do we emphasize this fact?
In our environmental specialist became
the head of the department or
from the heads of the department
went to the deputy general director.
Somehow besides the usual personnel
order and the designation
of the indications in it, whether we
accompany something, some actions,
some congratulations from the
head of the company or something else.
These are the movements, these are the
changes in the fate of the employee and
our organization.
Rites of care I would like to say
separately that the ritual of care is
different from the ritual of wires.
The care ritual is how people leave the
company and how the company accompanies
them.
And whether it accompanies at all or a person
for two days is chased only with a roundtable,
with the delivery of equipment
and so on and so on.
The ritual of wires is how
a man leaves.
Is it accepted in the company that
a person leaves their contacts when caring.
Does the person leaving the company
know that in case of the
need for new projects in the company
with him will not be lost communication,
he will be informed of all
the news in the company and
in case he will always have
the opportunity to return.
Ritual of conflict resolution.
If there was a conflict between
the units or between the employees,
the resolution of this conflict
is somehow noted, whether it is
fixed somewhere, whether
attention is given to such an
important event as the conclusion
of some important, significant,
long-playing conflict.
Historical rites are rites that are
linked to the history of the company.
Whether you mark some holiday,
or even not a holiday, any
reminder to employees, any
fact, any exclamatory
sign that the company has
a new anniversary, that
the company has a birthday.
It must be paid tribute, in most companies
today, however, the historical
rites are observed quite
clearly.
To the rites of unity we usually
refer to team building, that is,
team-building activities and everything
related to this sphere.
Image rituals are rituals that are
more targeted not on our internal
consumer, on our employees,
but on the external of our partners,
customers, suppliers, and
so on.
In general, types of activities
that can fix our rituals.
Timebilding, that is, the team
of education, the toolkit is interesting,
and you need to give it a
honourable result.
General meetings and general meetings.
And I understand that other times,
when the number of companies has exceeded
several thousand, to arrange
conferences and general fees
becomes physically impossible.
But at least general, unified
conferences for professionals in one
field, for example, the collection of
those who work in sales services,
some common clubs of managers.
Companies are trying to pick.
The corporate holidays.
You should ask yourself a question.
Is corporate holiday a unifying
action or a dissociating one?
That is, do you organize separate holidays
only for the management, only for
your own, and employees quietly
celebrate on business,
dropping down who can?
Or are you really trying to
organize a cheaper but unified
holiday for the whole company?
And when spending the holidays, it is
still worth keeping in mind the ultimate goal.
Why do we do it and what do
we want to as a result?
The main activity is the
development and maintenance of
various sources of information.
Someone has newspapers, someone has
magazines for managers on Finnish
paper, for the ordinary staff
on the ordinary newspaper.
Someone has this in the electronic
form of the site, someone has the
opportunity to arrange a round
table and feedback with the CEO
or the first person of the company.
For the staff, it is very important to
have the opportunity to ask the first person
a question and hear the answer from him.
There are 20 levels of control.
Conference calls, especially
common, have recently been
actively used in companies
of holding type or with a large
regional network.
It is true, the technology
is not in place.
And conferences organized through
the Internet are very actively
supplanting Internet calls.
An important event that we have
affects corporate culture, change
of compensation elements.
For what we encourage, behavior is given.
If you want to get loyal
employees, reward for loyalty,
for loyalty.
Enter the compensation system remuneration
for the duration of work in
the company, for a long
period, for mentoring.
If you want to be more
efficient, encourage
for economic results.
But be honest with yourself,
then don't encourage loyalty.
Because, as a rule, shifting several
values within one company instead
of setting clear guidelines,
doing this for employees, will
bring confusion and
misunderstanding.
So what are we valued?
Do we value professionalism
first, or do we value loyalty first?
Or do we still value performance,
despite anything?
An important, personal indicator
for employees that their company
values is congratulations
on individual occasions.
I would also like to pay tribute
to the fact that the tool, despite
its great efficiency,
is not applicable in large large
corporations, where it is quite difficult
to track the congratulations
of employees, to track
updates in personal state,
in the family situation
of employees.
It is more applicable in small
teams where every employee is in
sight and everyone knows what
changes have occurred in each.
Congratulations on personal
and national holidays.
The toolkit is also effective,
but the more company, the less
this toolkit is applicable.
Competitions and awards.
It works well in companies of different
levels and different numbers.
If in larger companies and competitions
we have more formal, more formalized,
prescribed with ten provisions, in a
more strict official style, then
in smaller companies competitions,
as a rule, take place with a deviation
to the KVN, with a deviation to humor
and with a deviation to the
team of education.
In large companies, competitions,
as a rule, are either children's or
sports, or competitions for the company's
anthem, the company's motto, some
more official, tied to the work.
As we move to the next slide,
we would like to look at
the obstacles that are preventing
us from changing our
corporate culture.
Not always the corporate culture
is the first person of the company.
Often with the growth of the company,
when the company has already declared
on the market, when the management
of the company has already decided
that the main guidelines
of the company, say, performance,
the main employees often inertia
adhere to an absolutely different
corporate culture, say,
focused on loyalty.
And they believe that the fact
that they come to work on time, leave
on time and have worked in the company
for 10 years gives them a reason
to raise a higher premium.
Therefore, here we are facing the
task not to maintain the
corporate culture, but to change it.
And here is very important
becomes the listed 5 factors
that prevent us from influencing
corporate culture, just
stand a wall.
First, it is a lack of organizational
development strategy, a lack
of understanding of how
we want to change ourselves
and where the company wants
to grow.
A very painful process that effectively
neutralizes all our attempts
to influence culture is
to replace the process of changing
corporate culture with only
slogans or new jargon.
Hello, we are all working
on the result, let's work on
the company now.
Unfortunately, such procedures
are not enough to results.
The change in corporate culture
is not initiated from the upper,
but from the middle level.
Until changes in corporate culture
become interesting to the management
of the company, the first persons of
the company, changes can not even start.
This will be wasted time and resources.
The dominance of short-term goals
is related to our first point.
If there is no long-term strategy,
but only short-term, we can win
all in the market, then changes
in corporate culture do not pass.
As a result of all of
the above, we have cynicism
among employees, as a result
of the lack of realization
of values.
Values have stated, let's say, we all
work for the result, but left the previous
system of motivation.
That is, as we rewarded employees
for loyalty, for the long period
of work in the company, so we
continue to premium for the
new year.
It is clear that people
are skeptical of all our
slogans and all our loud
statements.
What methods, on the contrary,
are effective for changing
the organizational structure?
The main, most effective methods
of changing corporate culture
are by degree of suffocation.
As you can see, in the first place,
the support of the senior management
without interest, without the
attention of senior managers to the
project of changing corporate culture,
results will not be special.
The second place is training employees
to new methods and technologies
in the new environment, in the
new corporate culture.
And in the third place, note,
with a sufficiently large weight,
with high efficiency is the
formulation, the formalization
of our values, our norms
and our rules.
As a rule, the project of corporate
culture begins absolutely autonomously,
parallel to the main tasks
and functions of the
HR service.
Then, after the end of this
project, it goes to function, not
to task with specific
indicators in time, with
specific indicators on results.
An example of such a project
on corporate culture we can
see in this slide.
How does a corporate culture
project begin?
By formulating the values
and visions we want to.
Until values are stated, employees
cannot not understand them,
not share them.
Here a specific project was taken,
which was carried out
on the corporate culture
in a fairly large company.
The most difficult case, the most
extreme option, when to
form a corporate culture and
communicate it was necessary to
1000 employees.
The work was constructed as follows.
Working groups were held on the
task of forming vision and forming
values, on the task of decoding
values, on their formalization.
After that, seminars were
held with company managers
at all levels on decoding values.
The conference was called
From a unified vision
to unified action.
The main task of this conference
was to formalize and find common
features in the corporate culture,
which was unified for all
employees.
There were also seminars not
only with managers, but with
all employees.
We have developed relevant
personnel and management
documents, which described our requirements,
our norms, our rules, which employee
is good for us, what is bad,
who we encourage, who we
welcome, what actions in our
company are unacceptable.
The next step was the diagnosis of
the state in order to find common,
unified values.
Interviews were conducted
with the managers, analysis of
corporate documents was conducted on
all enterprises that were part of
this holding.
Employees were surveyed,
the results were processed
accordingly and reports
were prepared to make
it clear where we
are moving with our
corporate culture.
There were also general requirements
for corporate culture.
That is, first we made a measure of
how we have it, how everyone understands
corporate culture today, who and
how sees it for themselves, who
sees the company, who sees the
values, who sees the norms.
After that, a huge stage began
in formulating and forming those
values that are desired and
that should be.
Here, through conferences
with management, with employees,
the basic documents were formalized
in which we formalize
our corporate culture.
This is the corporate code, it is
the employee guide and it is the Our
Corporate Traditions block.
The next step, after we have formed,
agreed and approved our necessary
package of documents to consolidate
our corporate culture,
is to begin broadcasting
our corporate culture to
all levels of our employees.
It started again.
We have seminars.
We have sent our developed
documents to all companies that
are part of the holding,
at all levels of the holding.
We conduct seminars and tell
us what we will have corporate
culture, what we are aiming
for, who we consider
a good employee, who is bad,
how to do to advance
within our company.
We also develop a corporate
communication system within
this same block.
How will we continue to uphold all
our values, norms and rules?
Here we have the mail, here we have
the newspaper, here we have feedback
from employees.
An active block in the broadcast
is the work of a training center
or training manager or training
department within the company.
In how they will build a system of training
staff to new knowledge and requirements,
depends in a great deal on the
effectiveness of our project as a whole.
Well, and organizing meetings
of managers with staff in
order to make it from
managers staff to learn
what new values in the company
are welcomed.
Then our project goes into current
activity and function.
We regularly conduct surveys, we regularly
organize staff consultations with managers,
and we, the staff service, regularly
conduct conversations with
the staff themselves,
and how they understand what
they have suggestions, wishes,
requests on the corporate
culture.
The Corporate Code is one
of the basic documents that
defines our norms, values
and rules.
The structure of
the corporate code is
as follows.
First, we speak and declare the
basic corporate basic principles
of the company as a whole.
As a rule, here sound
honesty, decency, customer
orientation and so on.
What the company values in itself
and its employees.
The next block is the values that are
at the basis of the company's activities.
What the company is focused on,
what is value in it, what is value
for employees and what the
company values its employees.
And then we talk about how
these values, stated by us earlier,
are transmitted into the daily
behavior of managers,
employees, staff in the interaction
within the company with
customers, suppliers,
and so on.
In other words, inside and outside.
Thus, the corporate code unites
three main blocks  principles,
values and standards of behavior
within itself, becoming an
internal set of laws,
an internal Bible for all
the company staff.
At the end of our seminar, we
would like to wish you that your
internal code of laws is effective,
effective, that your human resources
management system is shared by
all the staff of your company.